good evening from the health education
campus of case western reserve
university and the cleveland clinic
i'm chris wallace of fox news and i
welcome you to the first of the 2020
presidential debates
between president donald j trump and
former vice president joe biden
this debate is sponsored by the
commission on presidential debates
the commission has designed the format
six roughly
fifteen minute segments with two minute
answers from each candidate to the first
question then open discussion for the rest of
each segment
both campaigns have agreed to these
rules for the record i decided the topics and
the questions in each topic
i can assure you none of the questions
has been shared with the commission
or the two candidates this debate is
being conducted under health and safety
protocols designed by the cleveland
clinic which is serving as the health security
adviser to the commission for all four
debates as a precaution both campaigns have
agreed the candidates
will not shake hands at the beginning of
tonight's debate
the audience here in the hall has
promised to remain silent no cheers
no boos or other interruptions so we and
more importantly you
can focus on what the candidates have to
say no noise except right now as we welcome
the republican nominee
president trump and the democratic
nominee vice president biden
how you doing man
how are you doing i'm well gentlemen a lot of people have been
waiting for
this night so let's get going our first
subject is the supreme court
president trump you nominated amy coney
barrett over the weekend
to succeed the late ruth bader ginsburg
on the court
you say the constitution is clear about
your obligation
and the senate's to consider a nominee
to the court
vice president biden you say that this
is an effort by the president
and republicans to jam through an
appointment and
what you call an abuse of power my first
question to both of you tonight why are you right
in the argument you make and your opponent
wrong and
where do you think a justice barrett
would take the court president trump in
this first segment you go first
two minutes thank you very much chris i
will tell you very simply we won the
election elections have consequences we have the
senate we have the white house and we have a
phenomenal nominee respected by all top top
academic good in every way good in every
way in fact some of her biggest endorsers
are very liberal people from notre dame
and other places so i think she's going
to be fantastic we have plenty of time
even if we did it after the election
itself i have a lot of time after
the election as you know so i think that
uh she will be outstanding
she's going to be as good as anybody
that has served on that court
we really feel that we have a professor
at notre dame highly respected by
all said she's the single greatest
student he's ever had he's been a
professor for a long time at a great
school and we just we won the election and
therefore we have the right
to choose her and very few people
knowingly would say otherwise and by the way the
democrats they wouldn't even think about
not doing it if they had the only
difference is they'd try and do it
faster there's no way they would give it up
they had merrick garland
but the problem is they didn't have the
election so they were stopped
and probably that would happen in
reverse also definitely would happen in
reverse so we won the election and we have the
right to do it chris
president trump thank you um same
question to you vice president biden you
have two minutes
well first of all um thank you for doing
this and
looking forward to this mr president thank you joe
the american people have a right to have
a say in who the supreme court nominee
is and that say
occurs when they vote for a united
states senators
and when they vote for the president
united states
they're not going to get that chance now
because we're in the middle of an
election already
election has already started tens of
thousands of people have already voted
and so the thing that should happen is
we should wait
we should wait and see what the outcome
of this election is because that's the
only way the american people get to
express their view is by who they elect as
president and who they elect as vice
president now what's at stake here is the
president's made it clear
he wants to get rid of the affordable
care act he's been running on that
he ran on that and he's been governing
on that
he's in the supreme court right now
trying to get rid of
the the affordable care act which uh
will strip
20 million people from having
insurance health insurance now if if
they if it goes into court
and and uh the justice and i have nothing
i'm not opposed to the justice
she seems like a very fine person but
she's written before she went in the
bench which is her right
that she thinks that the affordable care
act is not constitutional
the other thing that's on the court and if
it's struck down what happens
women's rights are fundamentally changed
once again
a woman could be held pay more money
because she has a pre-existing condition
of pregnancy
we're able to they're able to charge
women more for the same exact
procedure a man
gets and that ended when we in fact
passed the affordable care act
and there's a hundred million people
who have pre-existing conditions
and they'll be taken away as well those
pre-existing conditions
insurance companies are going to love
this and so it's just not appropriate
to do this before this election if he
wins the election and the senate is democrat
or republican
then he goes forward if not we should
wait until february
there aren't a hundred million people with
pre-existing conditions
as far as a say is concerned the
people already had their say
they okay justice ginsburg said very
powerfully very strongly
at some point ten years ago or so
she said a president and the senate is
elected for a period of time but a
president's elected for four years
we're not elected for three years i'm
not elected for three years
so we have the senate we have a
president he's elected to the next election during
that period of time during that period
of time
we have an opening i'm not elected for
three years i'm elected for four years
the election's already started joe the hundred
million people is totally wrong i don't
know where you got that number
the bigger problem that you have is that
you're going to
extinguish 180 million people with their
private health care that they're very
happy with that's simply not true well
you're certainly going to socialist
you're going to socialist
medicine gentlemen we're now into open
discussion open discussion open discussion yes i agree go ahead vice president
number one uh
he he knows that uh what i proposed what
i proposed is that uh
we expand obamacare and we increase it
we do not
wipe any and one of the big debates we
had with 23
of my colleagues trying to win the
nomination that i won
were saying that biden wanted to allow
people to have private insurance still
they can they do they will under my
proposal that's not what you've said
and it's not what your party is saying that is simply a lie your party doesn't say it your party wants to go socialist medicine my party is me and socialist health care right now i am the democratic party and they're going to dominate you joe you know that i am the democratic party right now the
platform of the not according to harris democratic party
is what i in fact approved of what i
approved of now here's the deal the deal
is that
it's going to wipe out pre-existing
conditions and by the way
the 20 the 200 mil the 200,000
people that have died on his watch
they how many of those have
survived well there's seven million
people that contracted covid
what does it mean for them going forward
if you strike down
the affordable care act joe you've had
308,000 military people dying because you
couldn't provide them proper health care
in the military so don't tell me about this i'm
happy to talk about this and if you were
here you it wouldn't be 200 it would be two
million people
because you were very late on the draw
you didn't want me to ban china
which was heavily infected you didn't
want me to ban all right
europe which was heavily inf mr president
you would have been much later
joe much later mr president
you're talking about two million people
you're not going to be able to shut him mr president
as a moderator we are going to talk about
covid in the next segment
but go ahead let me finish the point is
that the president also is opposed to
roe v
wade that's on the ballot as well and
the court
in the court and so that's also at stake
right now
and so the election is already begun you don't know it's
on the ballot
why is it in the ballot because
because you said why is it on the ballot it's not on the ballot it's on the
ballot in the court i don't think so in the
court there's nothing happening there
donald would you just be quiet for a minute you don't know
her view on roe v wade i don't know you don't know
her view well alright let's alright let's
talk we've got a lot to unpack here gentlemen we
got a lot of time so
uh on health care and then we'll come
back to roe v
wade all right mr president the supreme
court will hear
a case a week after the election in
which the trump administration along
with 18 state attorneys general
are seeking to overturn that's right
obamacare to end obamacare you have
spent the last because they want to
give good health
care if i may ask my question sir good health
care over uh the last four years you have
promised to repeal and replace obamacare but you
have never in these four years
come up with a plan a comprehensive plan
yes i have to replace obamacare of course i have
well i got rid of the individual mandate i'm
going to give you an opportunity excuse me
i got rid of the individual mandate
which was a big chunk
of ob that is not a comprehensive plan that is absolutely a big thing that
was the worst part of obamacare
chris that was the worst part of obamacare you're debating
him not me let me ask my question well i'll ask joe
the individual mandate was the most
unpopular aspect of obamacare i got rid
of it and we will protect
people with pre-existing conditions mr president i'm the moderator of this
debate and i would like you to let me
ask my question and then you can answer
go ahead you in the course of these four years
have never come up with a comprehensive
plan to replace obamacare and
just this last thursday you signed a
largely symbolic executive order to
protect people
with pre-existing conditions five days
before this debate
so my question sir is what is the trump
health care plan
well first of all i guess i'm debating
you not him but that's okay i'm not
surprised let me just tell you something that
there's nothing symbolic
i'm cutting drug prices i'm going with
favored nations which no president has
the courage to do because you're going
against big pharma
drug prices will be coming down 80 or 90
percent you could have done it during your 47
year period in government but you didn't
do it
nobody's done it so we're cutting health
care what about pre-existing conditions all of the things that
we've done he has not cut health care
i'll give you an example insulin it's
going to it was destroying families
destroying people the cost
i'm getting it for so cheap it's like
water you want to know the truth so cheap take
a look at all of the drugs that what
we're doing prescription drug prices
we're going to allow our governors now
to go to other countries to buy drugs
because they pay just a tiny fraction of what we do this is big stuff
sir you'll be happy i'm about to pick up
on one of your points
to ask the vice president which is he
points out that you would like to add a
public option to obamacare yes and the argument
that he makes and other republicans make
is that that is going to end private
insurance it is not if i start asking the question that's not what your party says by the way it will end private insurance and create
a government takeover of health care it
does not it's only for those people who
are so poor
they qualify for medicaid they can get
that free in most states except governors who
want to deny
people who are poor medicaid anyone who
qualifies for medicare would
excuse me medicaid would automatically
be enrolled
in the public option the vast majority
of the american people would still
not be in that option number one joe you
agreed number two with bernie sanders who's far left on the
manifesto we call it and that gives you socialized medicine look
hey are you saying you didn't agree i'm not gonna
listen to him the fact of the matter is
i beat bernie sanders
not by much i beat him a whole
hell of a lot not by much i'm here standing
facing you
old buddy pocahontas would have left two days early you
would have lost every primary all he knows
how to do is hurt on super tuesday you got
very lucky look here's the deal
i got very lucky i'm very lucky
tonight as well and tonight with what i'm going to
make sure
with what because here's the deal here's the deal
the fact is that
everything he's saying so far is simply
a lie i'm not here to call out his lies
everybody knows he's a liar
but you agree i just want
to make sure joe you're the liar i just want to make sure you graduated last in your class not first in your class mr president can you let him finish sir no
he doesn't know how to do that
he has you'd be surprised you'd be
surprised go ahead joe you picked the wrong guy the
wrong night at the wrong time listen
you agreed with bernie sanders to the manifesto
there is no manifesto number one please let
him speak mr president number two
he just lost the left number two i i you
just lost the left
you agreed with bernie sanders on a plan
that was absolutely
agreed to and under that plan they call it folks do you have any idea what this clown's doing socialized medicine mr president i'll tell
you what he is not
for any help for people needing health
care because who is bernie because he in fact already
has cost 10 million people their health
care that they had from their employers
because of his recession number one
number two
there are 20 million people getting
health care through obamacare now that
he wants to take it away
he won't ever look you in the eye and say that's
what he wants to do
take it away no i want to give them
better health care at a much lower price
because obamacare is no good he doesn't
know how he doesn't know how to do that i've already fixed it he has never offered a plan i've already fixed it to an extent he has never done a single thing obamacare as you might know but probably don't obamacare is no good gentlemen you realize if you're both speaking at the same time let the president go ahead sir obamacare is no good we
made it better and i had a choice to
make very early on
we took away the individual mandate we
guarantee pre-existing conditions but
took away the individual mandate
listen this is the way it is and that
destroyed they shouldn't even call it
obamacare then i had a choice to make do
i let my people run it really well
or badly if i run it badly they'll
probably blame him but they'll blame me
but more importantly i want to help
people okay i said you've got to run it so well
that's what he's known for and i just had a meeting
with them they said the problem is no
matter how
well you run obamacare it's a disaster
it's too expensive premiums are too high
that it doesn't work
that's what his people have said so we do want to get rid of it chris we want to
get rid of that and give something that's cheaper and better i understand that sir but i have to give you roughly equal time go ahead please let the vice
president talk
good he has no plan for health care of course
we do
please he sends out wishful
thinking he
has executive orders that have no power he
hasn't lowered drug costs for anybody
he's been promising a health care plan
since he got elected he has none like
almost everything else he talks about
he does not have a plan he doesn't have
a plan
and the fact is this man doesn't know
what he's talking about
he's against all right i have one final question for you sure
uh mr vice president
if senate republicans we were talking
originally about the supreme court here
if senate republicans go ahead and
confirm justice barrett uh there has been talk
about ending the filibuster or even
packing the court adding
to the nine justices there you call this
a distraction by the president but in
fact it wasn't brought up by the
president it was brought up by some of your
democratic colleagues in i'm saying in the
congress so my question to you is you have
refused in the past to talk about it
are you willing to tell the american
people tonight whether or not you will
support either ending the filibuster or packing
the court whatever position i take on
that that'll become the issue the issue
is the american people should speak
you should go out and vote you're in
voting now
vote and let your senators know how
strongly you feel
are you going to pack the court vote now are you going to pack the court make sure you in fact
let people know he doesn't want to answer the question your senators i'm not
going to answer the question why wouldn't you
answer that question because the question is
you want to put a lot of new supreme court justices the question is radical left will you
shut up man listen who is on your list joe who's on your list gentlemen i think we've ended this this is so un-presidential he's going to pack the court he is not going to give a list we have ended this segment we're going
to move on to the second segment that
was really a
productive segment wasn't it keep
yapping man the people understand joe they sure do
47 years you've done nothing they understand
all right the second subject is
covid-19 which is an awfully serious subject
so let's try to be serious about it we have
had more than seven
million cases of coronavirus in the
united states and more than
200,000 people have died even
after we produce a vaccine experts say
that it could be
months or even years before we come back
to anything
approaching normal my question
for both of you is based on what you
have said
and done so far and what you have said
you would do
starting in 2021 why should the american
people trust you more than your opponent
to deal with this public health crisis
going forward
in this case the question goes to you
first sir
two minutes uninterrupted good luck
200,000 dead as you said
over seven million infected in the
united states
we in fact have 5% 4%
percent of the world's population
20% of the deaths 40,000 people
a day are contracting covid in addition
to that
about between 750 and 1000 people
today are dying
when he was presented with that number
he said it is what it is
well it is what it is because you are
who you are
that's why it is the president has no
plan he hasn't laid out anything he knew
all the way back in february how serious
this crisis was
he knew it was a deadly disease what did
he do
he's on tape as acknowledging he knew it
he said he didn't tell
us or give people a warning of it
because he didn't want to panic the
american people
you don't panic he panicked in addition
to that
what did he do he went in and he we were
insisting that the chinese
that the people we had on the ground in china
should be able to go to wuhan
and determine for themselves how
dangerous this was
he did not even ask xi to do that he
told us wrong what a great job
xi was doing he said we owe him a debt
of gratitude
for being so transparent with us and
what did he do then
he then did nothing he waited and waited
and waited he still doesn't have a plan
wrong i laid out back in march sir it's his two minutes it's so wrong exactly what we
should be doing
and i laid out again in july what we
we should be providing all the
protective gear possible we should be
providing the money the house has passed
in order to be able to go out and get
people the help they need to keep their
businesses open
open schools that cost a lot of money
you should get out of your bunker and
get out of the sand trap and get in
your golf course and go in the
oval office and bring together the
democrats and republicans and fund what
needs to be done now to save
lives so if we would have listened to
you wait wait you have two minutes sir
if we would've listened to you the
country would have been left wide open
millions of people would have died not
200,000 and one person is
too much it's china's fault it should
have never happened
they stopped it from going in but it was
china's fault and by the way when you
talk about numbers you don't know how
many people died in china
you don't know how many people died in
russia you don't know how many people
died in india they don't exactly give
you a straight count just so you
understand but if you look at what we've done i
closed it and you said he's xenophobic
he's a racist and he's xenophobic
because you didn't think i should have
closed our country wait a minute sir it's his
two minutes you didn't think we should
have closed our country because you
thought it was too
it was terrible you wouldn't have closed
it for another two months
by my doing it early in fact dr fauci
said president trump saved thousands of lives
many of your democrat governors said
president trump did a phenomenal job we
worked with the governor oh really go
take a look
the governors said i did a phenomenal job
most of them said that
in fact people that would not be
necessarily on my side
said that president trump did a
phenomenal job
we did we got the gowns we got the masks
we made the ventilators you wouldn't
have made ventilators and now we're
weeks away from a vaccine
we're doing therapeutics already fewer
people are dying when they get sick
far fewer people are dying we've done a
great job
the only thing i haven't done a good job
and that's because of the fake news
no matter what you say to them they give
you a bad press on it it's just fake news
they give you good press they give me
bad press because that's the way it is
unfortunately but let me just tell you
something i don't care i've gotten used
to it
but i'll tell you joe you could never
have done the job that we did you don't
have it in your blood you could've
never done that job
i know how to do the job i know how to
get the job done well you didn't do very well
in swine flu
h1n1 you were a disaster your own
chief of staff said you were a disaster 14,000 people died not
200,000 there was no
economic recession a far less lethal
disease by the way
you made a point let him answer it and there was no one
there was no we didn't shut down the
economy this is his economy that's being he shut
down the reason it's shut down is
because look you folks at home how many of you
got up this morning
and had an empty chair at the kitchen
table because someone died of covid
how many of you are in a situation
where you lost your mom or dad and you
couldn't even speak to
them you had a nurse holding a phone up so you could
in fact say goodbye
you wouldda lost far more people far more
people you would have been months late you were
months behind me joe
his own cdc director says we could lose
as many as another
200,000 people between now and the end
of the year and he held up he said
if we just wear a mask we can save half
those numbers
just just a mask and by the way in terms
of the
the whole notion of a vaccine we're for
a vaccine but we i don't trust him at
all nor do you
i know you don't what we trust is a
scientist you don't trust
johnson johnson we trust dr fauci pfizer okay gentlemen gentlemen let me move on to questions about
the future because you both have touched
on one of the
two of the questions i'm going to ask
focusing on the future first president
trump you have repeatedly either contradicted
or been at odds with some of your
government's own top scientists the week
before last
the head of the centers for disease
control dr redfield said it would be
summer before the vaccine would become
generally available
to the public you said that he was
confused and mistaken those were your two words
yeah but dr slaoui the head of your operation
warp speed
has said exactly the same thing are they
both wrong well i've spoken to the
companies and we can have it a lot
sooner it's a very political thing
because people like this
would rather make it political than save
lives god it is a very political thing
i've spoken to pfizer i've spoken to all
of the people that you have to speak to
we have great
moderna johnson johnson and others
they can go faster than that by a lot
become very political because the left
or i don't know
if i call them left i don't know what i call them so you're suggesting that the head of your operation warp speed dr slaoui i disagree with him yeah no i disagree
with both of them and he didn't say that
he said it could be there but it could
also be much sooner i had him in my office two
days ago he talked about the summer sir before
it's generally available
just like dr redfield he said it's a possibility that we'll
have the answer
before november 1st it could also be
after that i'm talking about when it's generally available
not well we're going to deliver it right
away we have the military all set up
logistically they're all set up
we have our military that delivers
soldiers and they can do
200,000 a day
they're going to be delivering this is the same man who told you it's all
set up
by easter this would be gone away by the
warm weather it'd be gone
miraculous like a miracle and by the way
maybe you could inject some bleach
in your arm and that would take care of
it this is the same
man that was said sarcastically and you know that
that was said sarcastically so here's the
deal this man is talking about a vaccine
every serious every serious company is
talking about
maybe having a vaccine done by the end
of the year but the distribution of that
vaccine will not occur until sometime beginning
or the middle of next year to get it out
if we get the vaccine and pray god we
will pray god we will mr
vice president i want to pick up you'll have the vaccine sooner than that i want to pick up on this question
though you say the public
can trust the scientists but they can't
trust president trump in fact you said
that again tonight
your running mate senator harris goes
further saying that public health experts
quote will be muzzled will be suppressed given
the fact that polls already
show that people are concerned about the
vaccine and are reluctant to take it
are you and your running mate senator
harris contributing to that fear
no more than the question you just asked
him you pointed out
he puts pressure and disagrees with his
own scientists
but you're saying you can't everybody knows or senator harris is saying you
can't trust the scientist
well no no you can trust the scientist
she didn't say that you can trust the
she said that she did say that public health experts quote will
be muzzled
will be suppressed yes well that's what he's
going to try to do but
there's millions of scientists there's
thousands of scientists out there
like here at this great hospital that
don't work for him
their job doesn't depend on him that's
not they're the people and by the way
i spoke to the scientists that are in charge by
the way they will have the vaccine very
soon let him finish do you believe for a
moment what he's
telling you in light of all the lies
he's told you about
the whole issue relating to covid he
still hasn't even
acknowledged that he knew this was
happening knew how dangerous was going to be back
in february
and he didn't even tell you he's on
record as saying it he panicked or he just
looked at the stock market one of the
two because guess what a lot of people died
and a lot more are going to die unless he
gets a lot smarter a lot quicker
mr president did you use the word smart
uh so you said you went to delaware
state but you forgot the name of your
college you didn't go to delaware state you
graduated either the lowest or almost the lowest
in your class don't ever use the word
smart with me
don't ever use that word oh give me a break
because you know what there's nothing
smart about you joe 47 years you've done
nothing well let's have this
debate and we'll see who's smart and if you would've had let me just tell you
something joe if you would have had
the charge of what i was put through i
had to close
the greatest economy in the history of
our country and by the way now it's
being built again
and it's going up fast we're gonna get to the economy in the
next segment sir okay it's going up fast
i look forward to talking about it okay when it comes to how the virus has
been handled
so far the two of you have taken very
different approaches and this is going
to affect
how the virus is handled going forward
by whichever of you ends up becoming the
next president i want to quickly go
through several of those
reopenings vice president biden you have
been much more reluctant than president
trump about reopening the economy and schools
why sir
because he doesn't have a plan if i were
running it i'd know how what the plan is
you've got to provide these businesses
the ability to have the money to be able
to reopen with the ppe
as well as with the sanitation they need
you have to provide them
plastic tell that to nancy pelosi will he just shush for a minute
tell it
to nancy pelosi and schumer cryin chuck nancy pelosi and schumer they have a
plan he won't even meet with them the
republicans won't meet with them in the senate
and he sits he sits in his golf course well i
mean literally think about it think about it you
probably play more than i do joe
what about this question of reopenings
and the fact well he wants to shut down
this country and i want to keep it open
and we did a great
thing by shutting it down he just admitted he shut it down wait a minute joe let me shut you down for a
second joe just for one second
we want to he wants to shut down the
country we just went through it we had
to because we didn't know anything about
the disease now we've found
that elderly people with heart problems
and diabetes and different problems are
very very vulnerable we learned a lot
young children aren't
uh even younger people aren't we've
learned a lot but he wants to shut it
down more people will be hurt by continuing
if you look at pennsylvania if you look
at certain states
that have been shut down they have
democrat governors all one of the
reasons they're shut down is because
they want to keep it shut down until
after the election
on november 3rd all right i want to move onto another because it's a political thing i've got to respond to that but those states gentlemen i want to move onto
another subject those states are
not doing well that are shut down right now i've
got to respond
to that he wants to shut down the whole country president trump you have begun to
increasingly question the effectiveness
of masks as a disease preventer
and in fact recently you have cited the
issue of of
waiters touching their masks and
touching plates are you
questioning the efficacy of masks no i think masks
are okay you have to understand if you
look i mean i have a mask right here i
put a mask on you know when i think i
need it tonight as an example
everybody's had a test and you've had
social distancing and all of the things
that you have to but i wear masks just like your rallies when
needed when needed i wear masks okay let me
ask i don't have i don't wear masks like
him every time you see him he's got a
mask he could be speaking
200 feet away from it he shows up with
the biggest mask i've ever seen
i will say i will say this vice president biden go ahead
sir look the way to open businesses is give
them the wherewithal to be able to open
we provided money the congress but i was
asking you sir about masks
well masks masks make a big difference his
own head of the cdc said if we just wore
masks between now
if everybody wore a mask and social
distanced between now and january
we'd probably save up to a hundred
thousand lives
it matters and they've also said the
opposite it matters they've also said the opposite
no serious person said the opposite
no serious person okay i want to ask you well look at look at dr fauci
dr fauci said the opposite he did not say the opposite he
said very
strongly masks
are not good then he changed his mind he
said masks are good
i want to ask i'm okay with masks i'm not fighting masks i want to ask
you both about one last subject because
your different approaches has even
affected the way that you have
campaigned president trump you're holding large
rallies with crowds packed together
thousands of people outside outside yes sir
agreed uh vice president biden you are holding
much smaller
uh events with because nobody will show up
people with
masks well it's true nobody shows up to his rallies
all right in any case
why you holding the big rallies why you
not you goes first sir because people want
to hear what i have to say i mean but
are you not worried about it spreading disease i'm doing
a great job as a president and i'll have 25 35,000
people show up
at airports we use airports
and hangers and we have a lot of people are you not worried about the disease issues sir well so far we have had no problem
whatsoever it's outside that's a big
difference according to the
experts we do them outside we have
tremendous crowds as you see i mean every and
literally on 24 hours notice and joe
does the circles and has three people
someplace by the way did you did you see one of
the last big rallies he
had and a reporter came up to him to ask him
a question he said no no no
stand back put on your mask put on a
mask have you been tested i'm way i'm way far
away from those other people
that's what he said i can't i'm going to
be okay he's not worried about you he's
not worried about the people out there
breathing on one another cheek to jowl we've had no
negative effect no negative effect come on we've had no negative
effect and we've had
35 40,000 people at many of these
rallies all right do you want to just quickly finish up because
i want to move on to our next yes i
would he's been totally irresponsible
the way in which he has handled
the social distancing and people wearing
masks basically encourage them not to
he's a fool on this if you could
get the crowds you would have done the
same thing but you can't nobody cares joe
gentlemen can we move on to the nobody cares
gentlemen can we move on to the economy
yes the economy is i think it's fair to say
recovering faster than expected from the shutdown
much faster in the second quarter the
unemployment rate fell to 8.4%
last month the federal reserve says the
hit to growth which is going to be there is
not going to be nearly as big as they
had expected president trump you say we are
in a v-shaped
recovery vice president biden you say
it's more of a k-shape
what difference does that mean to
the american people in terms of the
economy president trump in this
segment you go first so we built the
greatest economy in history we closed it
down because of the china plague when
the plague came in we closed it down
which was very hard
psychologically to do he didn't think we
should close it down and he was wrong
and again two million people would be
dead now instead of
still 204,000 people is too much one
person is too much
should have never happened from china
but what happened is
we closed it down and now we're
reopening and we're doing record
business we had 10.4 million people in a
four month period that we've
put back into the workforce that's a
record the likes of which nobody's ever
seen before
and he wants to close down the he will
shut it down again he will destroy this
country you know a lot of people between drugs
and alcohol and
depression when you start shutting it
down you take a look at what's happening
at some of your democrat-run states
where they have these
tough shutdowns and i'm telling you it's
because they don't want to open it one
of them came out last week you saw that
oh we're going to open up on november
9th why november 9th because it's after
the election
they think they're hurting us by keeping
them closed they're hurting people
people know what to do they can social
distance they can wash their hands they
can wear masks
they can do whatever they want but they
got to open these states up
when you look at north carolina when you
look and these governors are under siege
pennsylvania michigan and a couple of
others you got to open these states up it's
not fair you're talking about almost
it's like being in prison
and you look at what's going on with
divorce look at what's going on with
alcoholism and drugs it's a very very
sad thing
and he'll close down the whole country
this guy will close down the whole
country and destroy our country our country is
coming back incredibly well
setting records as it does it we don't
need somebody to come in and say let's
shut it down
all right your two minutes sir we're
now moved to you
as i as i said posing the question the
president says it's a v-shape recovery
you say it's a k-shaped
recovery what's the difference the
difference is
millionaires and billionaires like him
in the middle of the covid crisis
have done very well another billionaires
have raised have
made another 300 billion dollars because
of his
profligate tax proposal
and he only focused on the market but
you folks at home
you folks living in scranton and claymont
and all the small towns and working
class towns in america
how well are you doing this guy paid well a
total of $750
in taxes
that's wrong many millions of sir wait no sir just a wrong statement you've agreed to the two minutes so
please let him have it do i get my time
back the fact is that he has in fact worked
on this in a way that he's going to be
the first president of the united states
to leave office having fewer jobs in his
administration than when he became president fewer jobs
than when he became president first one in
american history
secondly the people who have lost their
jobs are those people who have been on the
front lines those people who have been
saving our lives those people who have
been out there
dying people who've been putting
themselves in the way to make sure
that we could all try to make it and the
idea that he is
insisting that we go forward and open
when you have almost half the states in
america with a significant increase
in covid deaths and covid cases in the
united states of america
and he wants to open it up more why's
he want to open it up why doesn't he
take care of the ameri you can't fix
the economy
until you fix the covid crisis and he
has no
intention of doing anything about making
it better for you
all at home in terms of your health and
your safety
schools why aren't schools open because it
costs a lot of money to open them safely
you know they were going to give his
administration going to give the
teachers and school
students masks and then they decided no
couldn't do that because it's not a
national emergency
not a national emergency they've done
nothing to help
small businesses nothing they're closing
one in six is now gone
he ought to get on the job and take care
of the needs of the american people
so we can open safely all right your
time is up sir we are going to get to
i have to respond to that well you both
had two minutes sir
excuse me he made a statement and so
did you
no people want their schools open they
don't want to be shut down
they don't want their state shut down
they want their restaurants i look at
new york it's so
sad what's happening in new york it's
almost like a ghost town and i'm not
sure it can ever recover what they've
done in new york
people want their places open they want
to get back to their lives people
want to be safe they'll be careful but they want
their schools
open people want to be safe i'm the one that brought back football
by the way i brought back big ten football
it was me and i'm very happy to do it
all right let's and people of ohio are very
proud of me and
you know how i found out when he took a phony ad gentlemen we're
going to get to your
economic plans going forward in a moment
but first mr president
as you well know there's a new report
that in 2016 the year you were elected
president and 2017
your first year as president that you
paid $750
a year in federal income tax each of
those years
i know that you pay a lot of other taxes
but i'm asking you the specific question
is it true that you paid $750 in federal
income taxes each of those two years i
paid millions of dollars in taxes millions of
dollars of income tax and let me just tell you
there was a story in one of the papers
i paid show us your tax returns i paid 38 million dollars one year
i paid 27 million dollars one year show us your tax
returns i went uh you'll see it as soon as it's
finished you'll see it
you know if you wanted to go to the
board of elections there's a 118
page or so report that says everything i
have every bank i have i'm totally under
leveraged because the assets are
extremely good
and we have a very we have a i built
a great company sir i'm asking you a specific question which
is but let me tell you i understand all of that
release your tax return i understand all of that let me no mr president i'm asking you a
question will you tell us how much you paid in
federal income taxes
in 2016 and 2017 millions of dollars
you paid millions of dollars in millions of dollars
yes so not 750 millions of dollars and you'll get to
see it
and you'll get to see it when inshallah but let me just
tell you inshallah chris let me just tell you something
that it was the tax laws i don't want to pay
tax before i came here i was a private
developer i was a private business
people like every other private person unless
they're stupid they go through
the laws and that's what it is he passed
a tax bill
that gave us all these privileges for
depreciation and for tax credits we build the
building and we get tax credits like the
hotel on pennsylvania avenue you get a massive
which by the way was given to me
by the obama administration if you can
believe that
now the man got fired right after that
happened but that's a vice president biden you
want to respond
yeah i do want to respond look the tax
code that made him that put him in a position
that he pays less tax than a
schoolteacher makes
on the money a schoolteacher makes is
because of
him taking he says he's smart because he
can take advantage of the tax code
and he does take advantage of the tax
code that's why i'm going to eliminate
the trump tax cuts
good and we're gonna i'm going to
eliminate those tax cuts that's okay and make sure that
we invest in the people who in fact
need the help people out there need help
but why didn't you do it over
the last 25 years because you weren't
president why didn't you do it over the last 25 years because you weren't president
and screwing things up
you were a senator and by the way you were a you're the worst
president that america has ever had
come on hey joe let me just tell you joe i've done more
in in 47
months i've done more than you've done
in 47 years joe
we've done things that you never even
thought of doing okay gentlemen including fixing the
broken military that you gave me
including taking care of your debts mr president we're
talking about the economy i'd like to
ask you about your plans going forward
because mr vice president your economic
plan he has none if you were to be elected president
focuses a lot on big government big
taxes big spending i want to focus first on
the taxes
you propose more than 4 trillion
dollars over a decade in new taxes
on individuals making more than four
hundred thousand dollars a year and on
corporations president trump says that
that kind of an
increase in taxes is going to hurt the
economy as it's just coming out of a
recession well just take a look at what
is the the analysis been done by wall
street firms
points out that my my economic plan
would create seven million more jobs
than his in four years
number one and number two it would
create an additional one trillion dollars in
economic growth because it would be
about buying american that we have to we're
gonna make the federal government
spend 600 billion dollars a year on
everything from
ships to steel to buildings and the like
and under my proposal we're going to
make sure that every penny of that
has to be made by a company but respectfully
sir i'm talking about taxes not
spending well by the way i'm going to
eliminate a significant number of the
taxes i'm going to make the
the the corporate tax 28% it shouldn't be
21% you have 19 companies 91 companies
federal i mean in the fortune 500 who
don't pay a single penny in tax making
billions of dollars why didn't you do it
before when you were vice
president with obama because you in fact passed
that that was your tax proposal that's right i got it i got it done
and you know what happened yeah you got it
done our economy boomed
like it's never boomed before let me finish mr president let me pick up on that you
would continue
your free market approach lower taxes
more deregulation correct not lower tax for the
american people
but let me excuse me but in but in obama's you
talk about the economy booming
it turns out that in obama's final three
years as president
more jobs were created a million and a
half more jobs
than in the first three years of your
presidency they had the slowest
recovery since nineteen economic recovery
since 1929
it was the slowest recovery also they
took over something that was down here
all you had to do is turn on the lights
and you pick up a lot
but they had the slowest economic
recovery since 1929 let me tell you
about the stock market
when the stock market goes up that means
jobs it also means 401ks
if you got in if you ever became
president with your ideas you want to
terminate my tax
my taxes i i'll tell you what you'll
lose half of the companies that have
poured in here
will leave and plenty of companies that
are already here they'll leave for other
places they will leave and you will have a
depression the likes of which
you've never seen look mr vice president we inherited
the worst recession short of a
depression in american history
i was asked to bring it back we were
able to have an economic recovery that
created the jobs you're talking about
we handed him a booming economy he blew
it it wasn't
blooming he blew it it wasn't booming it was the
weakest recovery since 1929 sir
is it fair to say he blew it when in
fact when covid came along when there was record low
unemployment before covid
yeah because what he did even before
covid manufacturing went in the hole
manufacturing went in a hole excuse me
chris wait number one number two chris number three they said it
would take no you're on number two
no chris chris they said it would take this guy a
miracle to bring back manufacturing i brought
back 700,000 jobs
they brought back nothing they gave up
on manufacturing we did not
part of my standard fare i'm the guy that brought back the automobile industry he totally
gave up on manufacturing
alright let him we brought back i was asked
to bring back chrysler and general
motors we brought them back right here
in the state of ohio and michigan
he blew it they're gone he blew it and
in fact they're gone
ohio had the best year it's ever had
last year
michigan had the best year they've ever
had that is not true many car companies came in
from germany from japan
went to michigan went to ohio
and they didn't
come in with you
mr vice president go ahead and so you take a look
at what he's actually done
he's done very little his trade deals
are the same way
he talks about these great trade deals
you know he talks about the art of the
deal china's
made perfected the art of the steal we
have a higher deficit with china now
than we did before
we have the highest defi trade
deficit china ate your lunch down 18% with mexico china ate your lunch joe and no wonder your son goes in and he
takes out
he takes out billions of dollars takes
out billions of dollars to manage he
makes millions of dollars
and also while we're at it why is it
just out of curiosity
the mayor of moscow's wife gave your son
three and a half million dollars
that is not true what did he do to deserve it what did he
do with burisma
none of that is true to deserve $183,000 sir you've asked him a question let him answer it none of that is true oh really he didn't get three and a half million mr president is totally mr president please you've asked a question totally discredited
totally discredited and by the way
well wait he didn't get three and a half
million dollars joe mr vice mr president he got three and a half million dollars that is not true oh really mr president
it's an open discussion please it's a
fact it is not a fact well you have raised an issue
let the vice president answer
it's been totally discredited did burisma pay him 183,000
a month with no experience in energy
mr president my son did nothing wrong at burisma i
think he did the only guy
that did something mr president let him answer he doesn't want to let me answer because
he knows i have the truth his position
has been
totally thoroughly discredited by
who the media by everybody well by the media by our
allies by the world bank
because they refuse to talk about it cause they're embarrassed by everyone has discredited and matter of
fact matter of fact mr president please stop even the people who testified under oath
so let me ask you this joe go ahead i'm listening to
you even the people under he got three and a half
million dollars from moscow testified under oath in his
administration said i did my job and i
did it very well
oh really i did it honorably i'd like to know who they are every well i'll give you the list of the
people who testi i'll fire them
immediately no no go ahead sir sure you've already fired most of
them because they did a good job because some
people don't do a good job well here's
the with you they sit around forever you get the
final word mr well it's hard to get any
word in with this clown excuse me this
person hey let me just tell you joe no no no mr
president three and a half million joe that is simply not true why did he deserve three
and a half million from moscow look
here's the deal we want to talk about
families and ethics i don't want to do that i
mean his family we could talk about all
night his family's already my family no no my family's lost
a fortune by coming down and helping us
with government and that's such a
and they're right here mr president every single one of them
lost a fortune this is not about
my family or his family it's about your
family the american people he doesn't they didn't pay him three and a half million dollars for nothing that's not
true it doesn't
want to talk about what you need
you the american people it's about you
that's what we're talking about
here then you shouldn't have taken the money that's the end
of the segment we're moving on
he didn't take that vice president chris can i
be honest it's a very important question try to
be honest
no he stood up the answer to the question is no
and he threatened ukraine sir with a billion dollars
that is absolutely not true
gentlemen i hate to raise
my voice but i chris he's on tape why should i be different
than the two of you
so here's the deal that's a good point we have
six segments we have ended that
segment we're going to go to the next
segment in that segment you each are going to
have two uninterrupted moments
in those two interrupted minutes mr
president you can say anything you want
i'm going to ask a question about race
but if you want to answer about
something else go ahead
but i think that the country would be
better served
if we allowed both people to speak with
fewer interruptions i'm appealing to you
sir to do that
well and him too well frankly you've
been doing more interrupting than he has well that's all
right but he does plenty
well less than sir less than he does plenty no
less than you have
let's please continue on the issue of
race vice president biden you say
that president trump's response
to the violence in charlottesville three
years ago
when he talked about very fine people on
both sides
was what directly led you
to launch this run for president oh yeah
sure president
trump you have often said that you
believe you have done
more for black americans than any
president with the possible
exception of abraham lincoln true my question
for the two of you
is why should voters trust you rather
than your opponent
to deal with the race issues facing this
country over the next four years
vice president biden you go first it's
about equity
and equality it's about decency it's
about the constitution
and we have never walked away from
trying to
require equity for everyone equality for
the whole of america
but we've never accomplished it but
we've never walked away from it like he
has done
it is true the reason i got in the race
is when those people close your eyes
remember what those people look like
coming out of the fields carrying
torches their veins bulging sputing and just
spewing anti-semitic
bile and accompanied by the ku klux klan
a young woman got killed
and they asked the president what he
thought he said there were very fine
people on both sides no president's
ever said anything
like that it is his now two minutes sir
second point i'd make to you is that
when floyd was killed when mr floyd was
killed there was a peaceful protest in
front of the white house
what did he do he came out of his bunker
had the military
do use tear gas on them so he could walk
across to a church and hold
up a bible and then what happened after
that the bishop of that very church said
that it was the disgrace the general who
was with him said
he all he ever wants to do is divide
people not unite people at all
this is a president who has used
everything as a dog whistle
to try to generate racist hatred racist
division this is a man who in fact you talk about
helping african americans
one in one-thousand african americans has been
killed because of the coronavirus and
if he doesn't do something quickly by
the end of the year
one in 500 will have been killed one in
500 african americans this man is the is a savior
of african americans
this man cares at all this man's done
virtually nothing look the fact is that
you have to look at what he
talks about you have to look at what he
did and what he did
has been disastrous for the
african-american community
so president trump you have two minutes
why should
americans trust you over your opponent
to deal with race issues he did a crime bill
1994 where you call them super predators
african americans are super predators
and they've never forgotten it they've
never forgotten it
i've never said no no sir it's his two minutes so you did
that and they call you super predator
and i'm letting people out of jail now
that you have treated the african-american
population community you have treated
the black community
about as bad as anybody in this country
you did the nineteen-nine and that's why
if you look at the polls i'm doing
better than any republican has done in a
long time
because they saw what you did you call
them super predators
and you've called them worse than that
because you look back at your testimony
over the years you've called them a lot
worse than that as far as the church is
concerned and as far as the generals are concerned
we just got the support of 200
mil 250 military leaders and generals
total support law enforcement almost
every law enforcement
group in the united states i have
florida i have texas
i have ohio i have every
excuse me portland the sheriff just came
out today and he said i support
president trump i don't think you have
any law enforcement you can't even say
the word law enforcement because if you
say those words
you're going to lose all of your radical
left supporters and why aren't you
saying those words joe why don't you say
the words law enforcement because
you know what if they called us in
portland we would put out that fire in a
half an hour but they won't do it
because they're run by radical left
democrats if you look at chicago if you look at
any place you want to look seattle
they heard we were coming in the
following day and they put up their
hands and we got back seattle
minneapolis we got it back joe because
we believe in
law and order but you don't the top 10
cities and just about the top
40 cities are run by democrats and in
many cases
radical left and they've got you wrapped
around their finger joe
to a point where you don't want to say
anything about law and order
and i'll tell you what the people of
this country want and demand
law and order and you're afraid to even
say it all right
i want to i want to return to the
question of race
vice president biden after the grand
jury in the breonna
taylor case decided not to charge any of
the police with homicide you said it
raises the question quote
whether justice could be equally applied
in america do you believe
that there is a separate but unequal
system of justice for
blacks in this country yes there is
there's sys there's
systemic injustice in this country in
education and work
and in in law enforcement and the
way in which it's enforced
but look the vast majority of police
officers are good decent honorable men
and women
they risk their lives every day to take
care of us but there are some bad apples
and when they occur when they find them
they have to be
sorted out they have to be held
accountable they have to be held
accountable and what i'm going to do as president
of the united states is call
a together an entire group of people at
the white house
blow everything from the civil rights
groups to the police officers to the police
chiefs and we're going to work this out we're
going to work this out so we change the
way in which we have more transparency
in when these things happen these cops
aren't happy to see what happened to
to george floyd these cops aren't happy
to see what happened to
breonna taylor most don't like it but we
have to have a system
where people are held accountable when
and by the way violence in response is
never appropriate
never appropriate peaceful protest is
violence is never appropriate alright mr what is
peaceful protest when they run
through the middle of the town president trump and burn
down your stores and kill people all over the place and you say peaceful pro that is not peaceful protest that is not no it's not but you say it is president trump i'd like to continue
with the issue of race i promise we're
going to get to the issue of law and
order please in a moment fine this month your
administration uh directed federal
agencies to end
racial sensitivity training that
addresses white privilege or critical race theory
why did you decide to do that to end
racial sensitivity training
and do you believe that there is
systemic racism in this country sir
i ended it because it's racist i ended
it because a lot of people were
complaining that they were
asked to do things that were absolutely
insane that it was a radical uh revolution that
was taking place
in our military in our schools
all over the place and you know it and
so does everybody else
and he would know what is radical oh it's totally racist what is radical about racial sensitivity training if
you were a certain person
you had no status in life it was sort of
a reversal
and if you look at the people we were
paying people hundreds of thousands of
dollars to teach very bad ideas and frankly very
sick ideas
and and really they were teaching people
to hate our country
and i'm not going to do that i'm not
going to allow that to happen
we have to go back to the core values of
this country
they were teaching people that our
country is a horrible place it's a
racist place
and they were teaching people to hate
our country and i'm not going to allow
that to happen vice president biden
nobody's doing that he's just he's the
racist you just don't
know here's the deal i know a lot more about
this than he does you don't know let him finish the fact is that there is racial
insensitivity people have to be made
aware of what other people feel like what
what insults them what is demeaning to
them it's important to people know they don't
want to many people don't want to
hurt other people's feelings but it's
it makes a big difference
it makes a gigantic difference in the
way a child is able to grow up and have
a self
a sense of self-esteem it's a little bit
like how
this guy and and his friends look down
on so many people
they look down their nose on people
like irish catholics like me who grow up
in scranton they look down on people who
don't have money they look down on
people who are of a different faith they look
down on people who are a different color
in fact we're all americans the only way
we're going to bring this country
together is bring everybody together there's
nothing we cannot do
if we do it together we can take this on
and we can defeat
racism in america vice president i mean president
trump sir during the obama
biden administration there was
tremendous division
there was hatred you look at ferguson
you look at
or you go to very many places look at
oakland look what happened in oakland
look what happened in baltimore look
what happened or
frankly it was more violent than what
i'm even seeing now oh my lord but the reason
this is ridiculous is that the democrats that run these
cities absolutely ridiculous don't want to talk like you about law
and order violent crime and you still haven't
mentioned are you in favor of law and order i'm in
favor of law you following it and a little bit of order
are you in favor of law and order yes i'm in favor go ahead and say it you asked a
question let him finish he'll lose he'll lose his left let him answer law and order with justice where people get
treated fairly and the fact of the
matter is violent crime went down
17% 15% in our administration
it's gone up on his watch went went down much
more in ours
he is president of the united states until china we were
breaking every record in the book mr president
you're going to be very happy because
we're now going to talk about law and
order excuse me the places we had trouble were democratic run
cities and states that's exactly my question there
has been a dramatic increase in
homicides in america
this summer particularly and you often
blame that on democratic
mayors and democratic governors but in
fact there have been equivalent
spikes in republican led cities like
tulsa and fort worth
so the question is is this really a
party issue
i think it's a party issue you can bring
in a couple of examples but if you look
at chicago what's going on in chicago
where 53 people were shot and eight died shot
if you look at new york where it's going
up like nobody's ever seen anything the
numbers are going up a 100
150 200 percent uh crime republican cities
it is crazy what's going on
and he doesn't want to say law and order
because he can't because he'll lose his
radical left supporters
and once he does that it's over with but
if he ever got to run this country
and they ran it the way he would want to
run it we would have
we would run it in a way our suburbs would be gone suburbs by the way our
suburbs would be gone
and you would see problems like you've never seen before he wouldn't
know a suburb unless you took a wrong
turn oh i know suburbs so much better than you
i was raised in the suburbs this is not
1950 all these dog whistles and racism don't
work anymore suburbs are by and large
integrated there's many people today
driving their kids to soccer practice
and or to
black and white and hispanic in the same
car as there have been any time
in the past what's what really is a
threat to the suburbs and their safety
is his failure to deal with covid
they're dying in the suburbs
his failure to deal with the environment
they're being flooded
they're being burned out because his
refusal to do anything
that's why the suburbs are in trouble i
do want to talk about this issue of law
and order though and
in the joint recommendation that came
from the
biden bernie sanders task force you
talked about
quote reimagining policing
first of all what does reimagining
policing mean and do you support
it means let me if i might finish the
question what does reimagining policing
mean and do you support the black lives
matter call for uh for community control of
policing look what i support is the police
having the opportunity to deal with the
problems they face
and i'm not i'm totally opposed to defunding
the police offices
as a matter of fact police local police
the only one defunding in his budget
calls for a 400 million dollar cut in
local law enforcement assistance
they need more assistance they need when
they show up for a nine eleven call to have
someone with them as a psychologist or
psychiatrist to keep them from having to use force
and be able to talk people down
we have to have community policing like
we had before where the officers get to
know the people
in the communities that's when crime
went down
it didn't go up it went down and so we
have to be engaged that's not what
they're talking about chris
that's not he's talking
about defunding the police that is not
true he doesn't have any law support he has
no law enforcement that's not true
he has almost nothing oh really who do you have name one
group that supports you
name one group that came out and
supported you go ahead
think we have time we don't have time to
do anything no no think about it name
one law enforcement group that came out
in support of you i'm going to take i'm going
to take back the moderator's
role there aren't any and i want to get to another subject
which is the issue of protests in many
cities that have turned violent in portland
oregon especially we had a
more than a hundred straight days of
protests which i think you would agree you talk
about peaceful protests many of those
turned into riots
mr vice president you say that people
who commit crimes
should be held accountable the question
i have though is as the democratic
nominee and earlier tonight you said
that you are the democratic party right
now have you ever called the democratic
mayor of portland or the democratic
governor of oregon and said
hey you got to stop this bring in the
national guard
do whatever it takes but you'd stop the
days and months of violence
in portland i don't hold public office
now i am a former vice president i've made
it clear
i've made it clear in my public
statements that the violence should be
prosecuted it should be prosecuted and anyone who
commits it should be prosecuted but you've never called for
the people
he's never said that excuse me sir you had never called for
the leaders
in portland and in oregon to
call and bring in the national guard and
knock off a hundred days of riots
they can in fact take care of it if he
just stay out of the way
oh oh really oh really
here's the
thing i sent in the us marshalls to get the killer of a young man
in the middle of the street and they
shot him
and for three days portland wouldn't
do anything
i had to send in the us marshals they took care of
business go ahead sir and by the way
you know his own former spokesperson
said you know
riots and chaos and violence help his cause
that's what this is all about i don't
know who said that i do
who i think kellyanne conway i don't
think she said that she said that
i don't think so here's
the point the point is that
that's what he is keeps trying to rile
everything up
he doesn't want to calm things down
instead of going in
and talking to people and saying let's
get everybody together figure out how to
deal with this
what's he do he just pours gasoline in
the fire
constantly and every single solitary
time okay and to
end this button up this segment i'm
going to give you a minute to answer sir
you have repeatedly criticized well wait i have to
answer his statement
you
have repeatedly wait just one second he made a statement
you've been talking back and forth i'm asking you i would love to
end it
you know if you want to switch seats we
could we would very quickly i'd send
in
the national guard it would be over there'd be no
problem okay good but they don't want to
accept the national guard
you have repeatedly criticized the the
vice president for not specifically
calling out
antifa and other left-wing extremist
groups but are you willing tonight to condemn
white supremacists
and militia groups and to say that they
need to stand down and not add to the
violence in a number of these cities as
we saw in kenosha
and as we've seen in portland
sure i'm willing to do that are you prepared specifically do it well go ahead sir i would say almost everything i see is
from the left-wing
not from the right-wing so what
are you what are you saying i'm
willing to do anything i want to see
peace well then do it sir say it do it say it do you want to
call them
what do you want to call them give me
a name give me a name go ahead who
would you like me to condemn
white supremacists and right-wing militia proud boys proud boys stand back
and stand by
but i'll tell you what i'll tell you
what somebody's got to do something
about antifa and the left because this is not
a right-wing problem
this is a left-wing his own fbi director said this is a
left-wing the threat comes from white supremacists antifa is an idea not
an organization oh you gotta
be kidding me not militia that's what his fbi it's an idea his fbi
director said well then you know what he's
wrong we're done sir
we're moving onto the next
everybody who gives you advice in your administration when a bat hits you over your head that's not an idea antifa is bad everybody in your
administration tells you the truth is a
has a bad idea can i tell you what you have
no idea
about anything antifa antifa is a dangerous radical group alright gentlemen we're
now moving on to the trump and
biden records you ought to be careful of them they'll over
throw you in two seconds i'm going to ask a question
when the president seeks a second term
it is generally a referendum on his
record but vice president biden you'd
like to quote one of your dad's
sayings which is don't compare me to the
almighty compare me to the alternative and in
this case sir you
are the alternative looking at both of
your records i'm going to ask each of
you why should voters elect you president
over your opponent
in this segment president trump you go
first two minutes
because there has never been an
administration or president
who has done more than i've done in a
period of three and a half years
and that's despite the impeachment hoax
and you saw what happened today with
hillary clinton where it was a whole big
con job
but despite going through all of these
things where i had a fight
both flanks and behind me and and
above there has never been an
administration that's done what i've done the greatest
before covid came in the greatest
economy in history
lowest employ unemployment numbers
everything was good everything was going
and by the way
there was unity going to happen people
were calling me for the first time
in years they were calling and they were
saying it's time maybe and then what
happened we got hit but now we're
building it back up again
a rebuilding of the military including
space force and all of the
other things a fixing of the the va
which was a mess under him 308,000
people died because they didn't have
proper health care he
it was a mess and we now got a 91% approval
rating at the va our vets we take care of our
vets but we've rebuilt our military
the job that we've done and i'll tell
you something some people say maybe the
most important
by the end of the first term i'll have
approximately 300 federal judges and court of appeals
judges 300
and hopefully three great supreme court
judges justices that is a record
the likes of which very few people and
you know one of the reasons i'll have so
many judges
because president obama and him left me
128 judges to fill when you leave office you
don't leave
any judges that's like you just don't do
that they left 128 openings
and if i were a member of his party
because they have a little different
philosophy i'd say if you left us 128 openings
you can't be a good president you can't
be a good vice president
but i want to thank you because it gives
us almost it'll probably be above that
number by the end of this term
300 judges it's a record looking at both
your records
why should voters elect you president as
opposed to president trump you have two
minutes uninterrupted under this
president we become weaker
sicker poor more divided
and more violent when i was
vice president we inherited a recession
i was asked to fix it
i did we left him a booming economy and
he caused the recession with regard to
being weaker
the fact is that i've gone head to head
with putin
and made it clear to him we're not going
to take any of his stuff he's putin's
puppy he still refuses to even say
anything to putin about
the bounty on the heads of american
soldiers your son got three and a half million dollars by the way my son mr president
your campaign agreed to both sides would
get two minute answers uninterrupted well
your your side agreed to it
and why don't you observe what your
campaign agreed to as a ground rule okay
sir he never keeps his word no no i'm not
asking that was a rhetorical question can you
get back 30 seconds
yes you may have go ahead so
thirdly we're poor the billionaires have
gotten much
much more wealthy by a tune of over
three to four hundred billion dollars
more just since covid you in the home you
got less you're in more trouble than you
were before
in terms of being more violent when we
were in office there were 15% less
violence in america than there is today
he's president united states
it's on his watch and with regard to
more divided
the nation it can't stay divided we can't
be this way
and speaking of my son the way you talk
about the military
the way you talk about them being losers
and being
and and and just being suckers my son
was in iraq he spent a year there
he got he got the bronze star he got the
conspicuous service medal
he was not a loser he was a patriot
and the people left behind there were
heroes really and i resent are you talking about hunter
are you talking about hunter i'm talking about
my son beau biden you're talking about
i don't know beau i know hunter hunter got
thrown hunter got thrown out of the
military he was thrown out dishonorably
discharged that's not true
he wasn't dishonorably discharged for cocaine use and he didn't have a job
until you became vice president
none of that is true once you
became vice president he made a fortune in ukraine in china in
moscow and various other places that is simply not true he made a fortune my son and he didn't have a job my son like a lot of people like a lot
of people we know at home
had a drug problem he's overtaken it
he's he's fixed it he's worked on it and
i'm proud of him i'm proud of my son but why was he given tens of
millions
of dollars he wasn't giving 10
million that is totally
president totally you've already we've
already been through total lord is
we both we've already been through this
i think the american people would rather
about more substantial subjects well you
as the moderator sir i'm going to make a
judgment call here three and a half
million dollars from the
mayor of moscow let's talk about i think
that report is totally
discredited mitt romney on that
committee said it wasn't worth taxpayers
money that reporter was written for
political reasons you know
i'd like to talk about climate change so
would i okay
the forest fires in the west are raging
now they have burned
millions of acres they have displaced
hundreds of thousands of people when
state officials there blame the fires on
climate change mr president you said
i don't think the science knows over
your four years
you have pulled the u.s out of the paris
climate accord
you have rolled back a number of obama
records what do you believe about the
science of climate change
and what will you do in the next four
years to confront it
i want crystal clean water and air i
beautiful clean air we have now the
lowest carbon if you look at
our numbers right now we are doing
but i haven't destroyed our businesses
our businesses aren't put out of
commission if you look at the paris
accord it was a disaster from our
standpoint and people
are actually very happy about what's
going on because our businesses are
doing well as far as the fires are
concerned you need forest management in
addition to everything else
the forest floors are loaded up with
trees dead trees that are years old and
they're like tinder
and leaves and everything else you drop
a cigarette in there the whole forest
burns down
you've got to have forest management
what do you believe what do you believe
about the science of climate change sir
i believe that we have to do everything
we can to have immaculate air immaculate
water and do whatever else we can that's
good you know we're planting a billion
the billion tree project and it's very
exciting you believe that
that human pollution gas
greenhouse gas emissions contributes to
the global warming
i think a lot of things do but i think
to an extent yes i think to an extent
yes but i also
think we have to do better management of
our forests
every year i get the call california's
california is burning if that was
if that were if you had forest
management good
forest management you wouldn't be
getting those calls you know in europe
they live their forest cities they call
forest cities
they maintain their forests they manage
their forests
i was with the head of a major country
it's a forest city
he said sir we have trees that are far
more they they ignite much easier than
there shouldn't be that problem i spoke
with the governor about it i'm getting
along very well with the governor
but i said you know at some point you
can't every year have
hundreds of thousands of acres of land
just burned to the ground but
that's burning down because of a lack of
sir if you believe
in the science of climate change why
have you rolled back the obama
clean power plan which limited carbon
emissions and power plants why have you
relaxed because it was driving
energy prices through the sky why have
you relaxed fuel economy
standards that are going to create more
pollution from cars
well not really because what's happening
is the car is much less expensive and
it's a much safer car
and you're talking about a tiny
difference and then what would happen
because of the cost of the car
you would have at least double and
triple the number of cars purchased we
have the old slugs out there that are 10
12 years old
if you did that the car would be safer
it would be much cheaper but
30 500 they've simply take a lot of cars
off the market because people would be
able to afford a car
now so and by the way we're going to see
how that turns out but a lot of people
agree with me many people
the car has gotten so expensive because
they have computers all over the place
for an extra little bit okay of gasoline
and i'm okay with electric cars too i
think i'm all for electric cars i've
given big incentives for electric cars
but what they've done in california is
just crazy
vice president biden i'd like you to to
respond to the president's climate
change record but i also want to ask you
about a concern you proposed two
trillion dollars in green
jobs you talk about new limits not
abolishing but new limits on fracking
ending the use of fossil fuels to
generate electricity by 2035
and zero net admission of greenhouse
gases by 2050
the president says a lot of these things
would tank the economy and cost millions
of jobs he's absolutely wrong
number one number two if in fact when
our during our administration the
recovery act i was able to i was in
charge able to bring down the cost
of renewable energy to cheaper than or
as cheap as
coal and gas and oil nobody's going to
build another
uh coal-fired plant in america no one's
going to build another oil-fired plant
in america
they're going to move to renewable
energy number one number two
we're going to make sure that we are
able to take the federal fleet and turn
it into a fleet that's
run on their electric vehicles making
sure that we can do that we're going to
500 000 charging stations and all of the
highways that we're going to be building
in the future
we're going to build a economy that in
fact is going to provide for
the ability us to take 4 million
buildings and make sure that they in
fact are
weatherized in a way that in fact
they'll emit significantly less gas and
oil because the heat will not be going
there's so many things that we can do
now to create
thousands and thousands of jobs we can
get to net
zero in terms of energy production
by 2035 not only not costing people jobs
creating jobs creating millions of good
paying jobs
not 15 bucks an hour but prevailing wage
by having a new infrastructure that in
fact is green
and the first thing i will do i will
rejoin the paris accord
i will join the paris accord because
with us out of it look what's happening
it's all falling apart and talk about
someone who has
no no relationship to with foreign
brazil the rainforest of brazil are
being torn down
are being ripped down more more carbon
is absorbed in that rainforest than
every bit of carbon that's admitted in
the united states
instead of doing something about that i
would be gathering up and making sure we
had to come
the countries of the world coming up
with 20 billion dollars say here's 20
billion dollars stop
stop tearing down the forest
and if you don't then you're going to
have significant
economic consequences what about the
argument that president trump basically
that you have to balance environmental
and economic interests and he's drawn
his line
well he hadn't drawn a line he still for
example make sure that we he wants to
make sure that
methane is not a problem we can you can
now emit more methane without it being a
problem methane
this is a guy who says that you don't
have to have mileage standards for
automobiles that exist now
this is a guy who says that the fact
it's all true and here's something about
the green new deal and it's not 2
or 20 billion as you said it's 100
trillion dollars i'm talking about
they want to rip down buildings and
rebuild the building
it's the dumbest most redundant is not
where airplanes are out of business
where two car systems are out where they
want to take out the cows too
you know that's not true either right
this is a this is a 100 trillion
that's more money than our country could
make in 100 years if we're
wait a minute sir i actually have
studied your plan
and it includes upgrading four million
buildings weatherizing two million homes
over four years
building one and a half million energy
efficient homes
so the question becomes some the
president is saying i
think some people who support the
president would say that sounds
like it's going to cost a lot of money
and hurt the economy what it's going to
do it's going to create
thousands and millions of jobs good
paying jobs let him finish sir
he doesn't know how to do that 100
billion the fact is it's going to create
millions of good paying jobs and these
tax incentives to people
for people to weatherize which he wants
to get get rid of
it's going to make the economy much
safer look how much we're paying now
to deal with the hurricanes with the
deal with by the way he has an answer
for hurricanes he said
maybe we should drop a nuclear weapon on
them they may i never said that
yeah he did made it up uh and here's the
deal you make up
we we are going to be in a position
where we can create
hard hard good jobs by making sure the
is clean and we all are in better shape
we spend
billions of dollars now billions of
on floods hurricanes rising seas
we're in real trouble look what's
happening just in the midwest with these
storms that come through and wipe out
entire sections and counties
in iowa they didn't happen before
they're because of global
warming we make up 15 of the world's
problem we in fact but the rest of the
world we've got to get them to come
along that's what we have to get back
into back into the paris accord all
right gentlemen wait a minute chris so
why didn't he do it for 47 years you
were vice president why didn't you get
the world
china sends up real dirt into the air
russia does
india does they all do we're supposed to
be good and by the way
he made a couple of statements the green
new deal is a hundred trillion dollars
that is not
my plan that's great well you want to
rebuild everything my plans
he made a statement about the military
he said i said something about the
he and his friends made it up and then
they went with it i never said it okay
vice president
his final question the final question is
i can't remember which of all is
about the economy and about this
question of what it's going to cost
the the economy i mean the green new
deal and the idea of what what
your environmental changes will do the
green new deal
will pay for itself as we move forward
we're not going to build plants that in
are great polluting plants but you're
going to build a brand new deal
pardon me do you support no i don't
support the green new deal don't
oh well that's a big statement i support
i support the biden plan that i put
okay the biden plan which is different
than what he
calls the radical green new deal all
right gentlemen final segment
election integrity as we meet tonight
millions of americans
are receiving mail-in ballots or going
to vote early
how confident should we be that this
will be
a fair election and what are you
prepared to do
over the next five plus weeks because
it'll not only be to election day but
counting some ballots mail-in ballots
after election day
what are you prepared to do to reassure
the american people that the next
will be the legitimate winner of this
in this final segment mr vice president
you go first prepared to let people vote
they should go to iwillvote.com
decide how they're going to vote when
they're going to vote and what means by
which they're going to vote
his own homeland security director as
well as the fbi director says there is
no evidence at all that mail-in ballots
are a source of of being manipulated and
they said that the fact is that there
are going to be millions of people
because of covet
that are going to be voting by mail and
ballots like he does by the way
he sits behind the resolute desk and
sends his ballot to florida
number one number two we're going to
make sure that those people who
want to vote in person are able to vote
because enough poll watchers are there
make sure they can socially distance the
polls are open on time
and their polls stay open until the
votes are counted and this is all about
trying to dissuade people from voting
because he's trying to con
to scare people into thinking that it's
not going to be legitimate
show up and vote you will determine the
outcome of this election
vote vote vote if you're able to vote
early in your state
vote early if you're able to vote in
person vote in person
vote whatever way is the best way for
you because you will he cannot stop you
from being able to determine the outcome
of this election
and in terms of whether or not when the
votes are counted and they're all
that will be accepted if i win that will
be accepted if i lose that'll be
accepted but by the way
if in fact he says he's not sure what
he's going to accept
well let me tell you something it
doesn't matter because if we get the
it's going to be all over he's going to
go he can't stay in power
it won't happen it won't happen so vote
just make sure you understand you have
in your control to determine what this
country is going to look like the next
four years
is it going to change you get four more
years of these lies
mr president two minutes so when i
listened to joe
talking about a transition there's been
no transition from when i won i won that
and if you look at crooked hillary
clinton if you look at all of the
different people
there was no transition because they
came after me trying to do a coup
they came after me spying on my campaign
they started from the day i won
and even before i won from the day i
came down the escalator with our first
they were a disaster they were disgraced
to our country
and we've caught them we've caught them
all we've got it all on tape we've
caught them all and by the way you gave
the idea for the logan act against
general flynn
you better take a look at that because
we caught you in a sense and
president obama was sitting in the
office he knew about it too so don't
tell me about a free
transition as far as the ballots are
concerned it's a disaster
a solicited ballot okay
solicit it is okay you're soliciting
you're asking they send it back you send
it back
i did that if you have an unsolicited
they're sending millions of ballots all
over the country
there's fraud they found them in creeks
they found some with the name trump just
happened to have the name
trump just the other day in a waste
paper basket they're being sent all over
the place
they sent two in a democrat area they
sent out a thousand ballots everybody
got two ballots
this is going to be a fraud like you've
never seen the other thing
it's nice on november 3rd you're
watching and you see who won the
and i think we're going to do well
because people are really happy with the
job we've done
but you know what we won't know we might
not know for months
because these ballots are going to be
all over take a look at what happened in
manhattan take a look at what happened
new jersey take a look at what happened
in virginia and other places
they're not losing two percent one
percent which by the way is too much an
election could be won or lost with that
they'll listen 30 and 40 it's a fraud
and it's a shame and can you imagine
where they say
uh you have to have your ballot in by
november 10th
november 10th that means that's seven
after the election in theory should have
been announced okay
we have made your states with that sir
all run by david
says two minutes all run by democrats
president trump's irregularities
you're going to be able to continue you
have been charging for months that
mail-in balloting is going to be a
disaster you say it's rigged
that it's going to lead to fraud but in
in the last midterm election 31 million
voted mail-in voting that was
a quarter more than a quarter of all the
voters that year cast their ballots by
now that millions of mail-in ballots
have gone out
what are you going to do about it and
are you counting on the supreme court
including a justice barrett to settle
any dispute
i think i'm counting on them to look at
the ballots definitely i don't think
well i hope we don't need them
in terms of the election itself but for
the ballots i think so
because what's happening is incredible i
just heard i read today where at least
one percent of the ballots for 2016 were
invalidated they they take them we don't
like them we don't like them
they throw them out there are millions
of ballots going on what you do is you
go and vote you do a solicited ballot no
no that's okay i know where you're going
i'm asking you about the fact that
millions of people you go and vote
you go and vote but like they used to
millions of people you either do chris a
solicited ballot where you're sending it
in they're sending it back and you're
they have mailman with lots of it did
you see what's going on take a look at
west virginia mailman selling the
they're being sold they're being dumped
in rivers this is a horrible thing for
our country
for the last decade or more five
including two republican states
and you don't have to solicit the ballot
it's sent to you
it's sent to your home what we're saying
is they're saying is that has to be a
by the time by election day if it
doesn't get in until the
seventh eighth ninth it still should be
he's just afraid of counting the votes
because you're wrong
i want to continue with you on this vice
president because he's so wrong when he
a statement excuse me vice president
biden the biggest problem in fact over
the years with mail-in voting
has not been fraud historically it has
that sizable numbers sometimes hundreds
of thousands of ballots are thrown out
because they have not been properly
filled out or there is some other
irregularity or they must be free
the deadline so the question i have is
are you concerned
that the supreme court with a justice
barrett will settle any dispute
i am concerned that any court would
settle this because here's the deal
when you when you file when you get a
and you fill it out you're supposed to
have an affidavit if you didn't know you
someone say that this is me you should
be able to
if in fact you can verify that you when
the before the ballot is thrown out
that's sufficient to be able to count
the ballot because someone made a
and not dotting the correct eye who they
voted for
testify say who they voted for
say it's you that is totally legitimate
all right excited
i have a friend swamping my system you
know it can't be done
you know it can't and already
election workers are prohibited
currently by law eight states
from even beginning to process ballots
even take them out of the envelopes and
flatten platinum until election day that
means that it's likely because there's
going to be a huge increase
in mail-in balloting that we are not
going to know
on election night who the winner is that
it could be days
it could be weeks until we find out who
the new president is so i first for you
finally for the for the vice president i
hope neither of you will interrupt the
will you urge your supporters to stay
during this extended period not to
engage in any
civil unrest and will you pledge tonight
that you will not declare
victory until the election has been
independently certified
president trump thank you for asking my
supporters to go into the polls
and watch very carefully because that's
what has to happen i am urging them to
do it
as you know today there was a big
problem in philadelphia they went in to
watch they were
called poll watchers a very safe very
nice thing they were thrown out they
weren't allowed to watch
you know why because bad things happen
in philadelphia bad things
and i emerging i am marriaging my people
i hope it's going to be a fair election
if it's a fair election
i am a hundred percent on board but if i
tens of thousands of ballots being
manipulated i can't go along with that
and i'll tell you what is that from a
common sense does that mean you're going
to tell your other people
it means you have a fraudulent election
you're sending out 80 million ballots
they're not these people aren't equipped
to handle it
number one number two they cheat they
hey they found ballots in a waste paper
three days ago and they all had the name
military ballots they were military
they all had the name trump on them vice
president you think that's good
vice president biden final question for
you will you urge your supporters to
stay calm
while the vote is counted and will you
pledge not to declare victory until the
election is independently certified yes
and here's the deal we count the balance
as you pointed out
some of these ballots in some states
can't even be opened until
election day and if there's thousands of
ballots going to take time to do it and
by the way
our military they've been voting by
first since at the end of the civil war
in effect and that's
and that's what's happened going to
happen why was it not why is it for them
somehow not fraudulent it's the same
it's honest no one has established at
that there is fraud related to male
imbalance that somehow it's a fraudulent
process it's already been established
take a look at carolyn maloney's race
he has no idea what he's talking about
here's the deal the fact is i will
accept it and he will too you know why
because once the winner is declared
after all the all the ballots are
counted all the votes are counted
that'll be the end of it that'll be the
end of it and if it's me
in fact fine if it's not me i'll support
the outcome
and i'll be a president not just for the
democrats i'll be a president for
democrats and republicans
and this guy i want to say honestly
would you say that's the end of this
this is the end of this debate this
ballot count
we're going to leave it there uh to be
as in more debates as we go on president
vice president biden it's been an
interesting hour and a half i want to
thank you both
for participating in the first of three
debates that you have agreed to engage
in we want to thank case western reserve
and the cleveland clinic for hosting
this event the next debate sponsored by
the commission on presidential debates
will be one week from tomorrow october
7th at the university of utah
in salt lake city the two vice
presidential nominees vice president
mike pence and senator kamala harris
will debate at 9 pm eastern that night
we hope you watch
until then thank you and good night